# Quests
Day by day traffic is increasing on one of the websites managed by the Nautilus production support team. Therefore, the team has observed a degradation in website performance. Following discussions about this issue, the team has decided to deploy this application on a high availability stack i.e on Nautilus infra in Stratos DC. They started the migration last month and it is almost done, as only the LBR server configuration is pending. Configure LBR server as per the information given below:

a. Install nginx on LBR (load balancer) server.

b. Configure load-balancing with the an http context making use of all App Servers. Ensure that you update only the main Nginx configuration file located at /etc/nginx/nginx.conf.

c. Make sure you do not update the apache port that is already defined in the apache configuration on all app servers, also make sure apache service is up and running on all app servers.

d. Once done, you can access the website using StaticApp button on the top bar.


# Process and Solutions

-  ssh into LBR
    ```
        ssh user@host
    ```

- you can ssh into the other servers to configure the port the app is exposed on (Optional)
  ```
    ss -tlnp 
  ```

- configure all the servers in upstream for loadbalancing
    ```
     http{
        .....
        upstream nautilus_server {
            server serverIp:port;
            server serverIp:port;
            server serverIp:port;
        }

        server {
            listen 80
            location / {
                 proxy_pass http://nautilus_server;
                # Recommended headers for real IP tracking
                proxy_set_header Host $host;
                proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
            }
        }
     }
    ```

-  confirm that the nginx config has no error
    ```
        sudo nginx -t
    ```

-  reload nginx config
    ```
        sudo systemctl nginx reload
    ```

- test by clicking StaticApp button  or curl into Lbr server