# Lab 3
Files Permissions and Search For Files
# Quests

## Q1
What command can be used to find files and directoriesmodified in the last 5 minutes in the /dev directory?


### Options
```
    find /dev/ -cmin -5
    find /dev/ -mmin -5 (Answer)
    find /dev/ -cmin +5
    find /dev/ -min +5

```

## Q2
What command removes the write permission for the group from a file?
```
chmod g=w some_file
chmod w-g some_file
chmod g-w some_file (Answer)
chmod w=g some_file

```

## Q3
Find files/directories under the /var/log/ directory that the group can write to, but others cannot read or write to it. Save the list of the files/directories (with complete parent path) in the /home/bob/data.txt file.

You can use the redirection to save your command's output in a file i.e [your-command] > /home/bob/data.txt

To make this easier to understand, the logic of the command can be broken down like this:
-> Permissions for the group have to be at least w. If there's also an extra r or x in there, it will still match.
-> Permissions for others have not to be r or w. That means, if any of these two permissions, r or w, match for others, the result has to be excluded.

```
find /var/log/ -perm -g=w ! -perm /o=rw > /home/bob/data.txt
```

## Q4
Find our secret file under /home/bob. You can either look for a file that is exactly 213 kilobytes or a file that has permission 402 in octal.

Save the name (including the parent directory path) of this file in the /home/bob/secfile.txt file.

You can use the redirection to save your command's output in a file: [your-command] > /home/bob/secfile.txt

```
find /home/bob -size 213k -o -perm 402 > /home/bob/secfile.txt
```

## Q5
In our lessons, we briefly mentioned the setuid, setgid, and sticky bit special permissions. Consider that setuid is short for set user id and setgid is short for set group id.
Add the permissions for setuid, setgid, and sticky bit on the /home/bob/datadir directory.
Do not use octal notation for this question.

```
 chmod u+s,g+s,o+t /home/bob/datadir
```

## Q6
Find the dogs.txt file under the /usr/share directory.
Save the location of the file in the /home/bob/dogs file.

```
 find /usr/share -name dogs.txt > /home/bob/dogs
```

## Q7
Find the cats.txt file under bob's home directory and copy it into the /opt directory.

```
sudo find /home/bob/ -name cats.txt
sudo cp /home/bob/.etc/h/e/r/cats.txt /opt/cats.txt
```

## Q8
Find all directories named pets in the /var/directory and save the output (along with directory path) in the/home/bob/pets.txt file.

You should be able to save the output in a file using redirection: <your-command> > /home/bob/pets.txt

```
sudo find /var/ -type d -name pets > /home/bob/pets.txt
```

## Q9
Find all the files whose permissions are 0777 in /var directory.

How many such files did you find?

```
sudo find /var -type f -perm 0777 -print
0(Answer)
```

## Q10
Find all the files whose permissions are 0640 in /usr/ directory and save the output (along with parent path) in /home/bob/.opt/permissions.txt file.

You should be able to save the output in a file using redirection: <your-command> > /home/bob/.opt/permissions.txt

```
sudo find /usr/ -type f -perm 0640 > /home/bob/.opt/permissions.txt
```

## Q11
Find all the files which have been modified in the last 2 hours in /usr directory.

How many such files did you find?

```
 sudo find /usr -type f -mmin -120
 5(Answer)

```

## Q12
Find all the files which have been modified in the last 30 minutes in the /var directory.

How many such files did you find?

```
sudo find /var -mmin 30
0 (Answer)
```

## Q13
Find all the files with size 20MB in /var directory.

How many such files did you find?

```
sudo find /var -size 20M
0 (Answer)
```

## Q14
Find all files between 5MB and 10MB in the /usr directory and save the output (along with parent path) in the/home/bob/size.txt file.

You should be able to save the output in a file using redirection: <your-command> > /home/bob/size.txt

```
sudo find /usr -type f -size +5M -size -10M > /home/bob/size.txt
```

## Q15
Create a directory named LFCS under bob's home directory and update its user owner permissions to only x (execute), and group and others should not have any permissions.
It should give us a permission denied error while listing the contents of the directory.

```
  mkdir /home/bob/LFCS
  chmod u=x,g=-,o=- /home/bob/LFCS
```

## Q16
Update the permissions for some_directory to rwxr-xr-x

```
chmod u=rwx,g=rx,o=rx  some_directory 
```

































