# Lab 
Archive, Back Up, Compress, IO Redirection

# Quests

## Q1
Create a tar archive logs.tar (under bob's home) of the/var/log/ directory.

```
tar cPf /home/bob/logs.tar /var/log/
```
The P is to allow relative path

## Q2
Create a compressed tar archive logs.tar.gz (under bob's home) of the /var/log/ directory.

```
tar cPzf /home/bob/logs.tar.gz /var/log
```

## Q3
List the content of the /home/bob/logs.tar archive and save the output in the /home/bob/tar_data.txt file.

```
tar tfP /home/bob/logs.tar > /home/bob/tar_data.txt
```

## Q4
Extract the contents of /home/bob/archive.tar.gz to the /tmp directory.

```
tar xfP /home/bob/archive.tar.gz -C /tmp
```

## Q5
Execute the /home/bob/script.sh script and save all normal output (except errors/warnings) in the /home/bob/output_stdout.txt file.

```
/home/bob/script.sh 1>  /home/bob/output_stdout.txt
```

## Q6
Execute the /home/bob/script.sh script and save all command output (both errors/warnings and normal output) in the /home/bob/output.txt file.

```
sudo ./script.sh > /home/bob/output.txt 2>&1
```

## Q7
Execute the /home/bob/script.sh script and save all errors only in the /home/bob/output_errors.txt file.

```
sudo ./script.sh 2> /home/bob/output_errors.txt
```

## Q8
Create a bzip archive under bob's home named file.txt.bz2 out of /home/bob/file.txt, but preserve the original file. At the end of the exercise, you should have both.

```
bzip2 --keep /home/bob/file.txt
```

## Q9
Extract the contents of /home/bob/archive.tar.gz to the /opt directory.

```
sudo tar -xf /home/bob/archive.tar.gz -C /opt
```

## Q10
Use the cat command, and redirection, to add (append) the contents of /home/bob/file.txt to /home/bob/destination.txt.

```
cat /home/bob/file.txt >> /home/bob/destination.txt
```

## Q11
Create a file.tar archive of the /home/bob/file directory under the /home/bob location.
```
tar cfP /home/bob/file.tar /home/bob/
```

## Q12
Create the gzip archive of the games.txt file , which is present under the /home/bob directory.

```
gzip games.txt
```

## Q13 
We have a /home/bob/lfcs.txt.xz file; uncompress it under /home/bob/.

```
unxz /home/bob/lfcs.txt.xz 
```

## Q14
Sort the contents of the /home/bob/values.conf file alphabetically and eliminate any common values. Save the sorted output in the /home/bob/values.sort file.

```
sort /home/bob/values.conf | uniq > /home/bob/values.sort
```

## Q15 
Sort again the contents of the /home/bob/values.conf file alphabetically. Eliminate any common values and ignore case.

Finally, save the sorted output in the/home/bob/values.sorted file.
```
sort /home/bob/values.conf | uniq -i > /home/bob/values.sorted
```