# Lab
Git and ssl certs

# Quests

## Q1
Generate a 4096-bit RSA private key and a Certificate Signing Request with a single command. The private key should be encrypted with the following password: "kkloud".

Save the key in a file called priv.key. Save the CSR in a file called cert.csr. There are no requirements for the certificate details like country name, organisation name, and so on. You can pick anything, or press Enter to pick the default values when prompted.

```
    openssl req -newkey rsa:4096 -keyout priv.key -out cert.csr
```

## Q2
Generate a self-signed certificate

Use no encryption for the private key.
Save the key in a file called priv.key.
Set the expiration for the certificate to 365 days.
Save the certificate in a file called kodekloud.crt.
Set the Common Name to kodekloud.com. The rest of the certificate details you can set to whatever you want.

```
    openssl req -x509 -noenc -days 365 -keyout priv.key -out kodekloud.crt
```

## Q3
In your /home/bob/ directory you will find a file called my.crt. What is the Common Name set in this certificate?

```
    openssl x509 -in my.crt -text

    CN = labs.kodekloud.com
```

## Q4

We've created a local Git repository for you.

Please switch to the directory called /root/kode to access it.
You can stage all the files with the .cpp extension to prepare them for a future commit. The other files should NOT be staged.
Next, create a commit with the following message: Added C++ files.

```
sudo -i

cd kode
git add "*.cpp"
git commit -m "Added C++ files"
```

## Q5
Switch to the Git repository that can be found in the kode directory. Create a new branch called testing.

NOTE: If you encounter an error while using a Git command, please exit the current directory and then re-enter it.

```
    git branch testing
```

## Q6
In the local Git repository that can be found in the kode directory do the following:

Delete the branch called "testing".
The error you will encounter is expected.
Figure out what is preventing you from performing the task, solve the issue, and then delete the "testing" branch?

```
cd kode
git checkout master
git branch testing --delete
```

## Q7
Go into the local Git repository found in the kode directory and find the file that modified in latest commit.

```
git log --raw
```

## Q8
Go into the local Git repository that you can find in the kode directory. Merge the documentation branch into the master branch.

NOTE: If you encounter an error while using a Git command, please exit the current directory and then re-enter it.

```
 git checkout master
 git merge documentation
```

## Q9
What command would you use to push the master branch from your local repository to a remote repository nicknamed origin?
```
git push origin master
```

## Q10
Clone the remote repository from https://github.com/kodekloudhub/git-for-beginners-course.git in your /home/bob/ directory. A subdirectory for the local repository will be automatically created.

```
git clone https://github.com/kodekloudhub/git-for-beginners-course.git
```














